# Enhancement-2: Algorithms and Data Structures
I chose to use my Course Planner program that I originally developed in my CS 300 class. The purpose of this program is to read a CSV file and obtain information about courses along with their prerequisites. From this, the program allows the user to look up a course and their perquisites or simply look at a full list of the courses. This is completed by storing the data into a hash-based structure. Even though the original program worked correctly for its assignment, parts of it were less efficient than they could be. There are unnecessary lookups that are repeated as well as inconsistent outputs. I am focused on improving the overall search optimization and organization for this milestone. 

I chose this artifact because it relies heavily on data structures, and it provides a great example of how performance and logic can be improved through better algorithmic decisions. By enhancing this program from its original point, I will demonstrate my ability to update an existing program to be more efficient overall. Furthermore, I will highlight my ability to reason which data structures should be utilized in different situations. My goal for this enhancement is to show that I can revisit old programs and implement solutions to improve efficiency and organization. This aligns directly with the algorithms and data structures course outcome. I plan to meet this goal by optimizing the prerequisite checking process, reducing the amount of repeated and unnecessary searches, and implementing a sorting function for consistent output. These changes made me think more about how efficient the program is, how the data is organized, and how to avoid doing extra work.

When planning the enhancements, I had to think creatively and really think about what the intended outcome was. I knew that changing the way the program checked the prerequisites was going to be the most difficult part. This is due to the need for it to catch and identify mistakes without doing any extra work. From this experience, I have been able to look at problems from a variety of angles to find the best solution. Improving this project helped me feel more confident in reviewing and strengthening existing code.
